Creating Your Own Dataset for 6D Pose Estimation
This guide outlines the steps and requirements for creating a custom dataset suitable for 6D pose estimation tasks.

High level requirements
Camera
Interesting object
Access to a printer
Some decent compute
We will print a Charuco board to calibrate your camera and then use the same board to create a labeled dataset with the pose labels for your object.

Label Files Structure
Our label files include 21 ground-truth values, derived as follows:

9 points corresponding to the centroid and corners of the 3D object model.
Class label for each cell.
Size encoding with 2 additional numbers representing the range in the x and y dimensions.
This results in a format of 9x2+1+2 = 21 numbers.

Label Format
Each of the 21 numbers corresponds to specific data points: 0. Class Label

Centroid Coordinates: x0 (x-coordinate), y0 (y-coordinate)
Corner Coordinates: From x1, y1 (first corner) to x8, y8 (eighth corner)
Object Size Range: x range, y range
Focal length x
Focal length y
Sensor width (in optical this can just be the image size)
Sensor height (in optical this can just be the image size)
Focal offset x (u0)
Focal offset y (v0)
Image width
Image height
Object rotation vector (Rodriques) [3x1]
Object translation vector [3x1]
Note: Coordinates are normalized by image width and height (x / image_width, y / image_height).

Tips for Training on Your Own Dataset
To train a model on your own dataset, you can mirror the LINEMOD dataset's structure. Ensure the following elements are included for each object:

Image Files Folder
Label Files Folder (Refer to [this link] for label creation guidance. Consider using the ObjectDatasetTools toolbox for ground-truth labels.)
Training Image Filenames (train.txt)
Test Image Filenames (test.txt)
3D Object Model (.ply file, units in meters)
Segmentation Masks Folder (Optional, for background robustness)
Configuration Adjustments
Ensure these configurations are tailored to your dataset:

Diameter ("diam" value): Set to the diameter of your object model in the data configuration file.
